---
title: "Advent of iOS Accessibility"
author: "Daniel Devesa Derksen-Staats"
date: 2024-12-06T12:00:00+01:00
tags: ["Accessibility", "a11y", "iOS"]
categories: ["Accessibility", "Advent of iOS Accessibility"]
series: ["Advent of iOS Accessibility"]
---

## Advent of iOS Accessibility

Starting something new: The Advent of iOS Accessibility. Twenty-four days of exploring some of the most common accessibility issues I've encountered, how to identify them, and—most importantly—how to fix them. Hope you enjoy the series!

### Day 1

One of the accessibility issues I see more often in iOS apps, believe it or not, is unlabelled elements. This happens especially for buttons with an icon but no title. In those cases, you need to configure an accessibility label manually. 

![Calendar of the Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 1. Buttons with no labels (especially buttons with an icon, but no title). Button with a bell, that intends to let the user see the notifications. If the button has no accessibility label, VoiceOver could say things like: button, bellIcon, possibly notification... far from ideal! A good accessibility label would be "Notifications". In UIKit, you can just assign a localized string to the accessibilityLabel property for the button. In SwiftUI, you can use the accessibilityLabel modifier and pass in a Localized String Key.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day1.png)

### Day 2

Some recommendations for improving your accessibility labels: don't add the element type, avoid redundancy and verbosity, localize...

![Calendar of the Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 2. Better accessibility labels. A music player with some examples of how to improve your accessibility labels. Don't add the element type: for the like button, if the label is "Like button", VoiceOver will say "Like button, button". So just "Like" is perfectly fine. Avoid redundancy and verbosity. For the repeat button, the label "Repeat This is the last time from Kean" would be too long, and if we specify the song and band for every action, it would be too verbose. Localize. For the next track button, try to use a localized string instead of a plain string so VoiceOver speaks in the correct language. Start with a capital letter and don't end with a period. This helps with VoiceOver's inflection.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day2.png)

### Day 3

Anything representing a heading in the app should have the header trait. It allows for a faster way of exploring a screen and quickly jumping to the part of the app you are interested in. Screens should also start with a header.

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 3. Missing header trait for headings. BBC News app shows two sections Technology and Science & Environment. These sections consist of a horizontally scrollable carrousel of at least 5 elements. If the titles of the sections have the header trait, a single swipe down brings you from one section to the other, compared to 6 swipes to the right needed otherwise. At the top of the app, there's the BBC logo. Screens should start with a heading so the logo could also have the header trait. In UIKit you can insert the header accessibility trait to the accessibilityTraits property of the UI element representing the heading. In SwiftUI, you can use the accessibilityAddTraits modifier and pass isHeader as parameter.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day3.png)

### Day 4

Important information is often conveyed visually through icons, badges, or progress bars... These details can easily be overlooked. Please make sure they're part of your UI's components' accessibility labels or values for a more inclusive experience.

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 4. Visual cues missing from VoiceOver's announcement. Four examples. The first one is a button with a person silhouette and a checkmark. VoiceOver announces it as "Collaborate, button". It is missing the fact that you are already collaborating with someone. Represented by the checkmark. Second example shows a tab with the title "Coming soon" and a badge with the number 6. VoiceOver announces it as "Coming soon, Tab 2 of 5". It is not conveying that there are 6 new movies and shows. Represented by the badge. Third example shows a chart's title: "Daily Average 1h 55m", an arrow pointing down, and "55% from last week". VoiceOver says "Daily average, one hour fifty-five minutes. 55% from last week". The user wouldn't know if it went up or down. Represented by the arrow pointing down. Fourth example, episode download. The stop button is surrounded by circular progress bar. VoiceOver says "Stop downloads, button" but not how much is left.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day4.png)

### Day 5

Images should either be decorative or have a proper accessibility label or alt text that describes them. If they're decorative you can make it so they get skipped by assistive tech so it doesn't get in the way of the experience. 

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 5. Images: with a description or decorative. iOS app with Disney+ showing the "How I met your mother" screen. The header has two images, one of them in the background, with the characters, that could be considered decorative. The other one is an image with the title of the series, which needs a description. In UIKit images are not accessible by default. So in the case of images that need to be accessible, you need to make the accessible elements. In SwiftUI images are by default accessible. You have an Image constructor with a decorative parameter, where you pass the name of the image.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day5.png)

Quick clarification on this one. It is probably not the best example of decorative images. I think these images should have alt text. But in my experience, most APIs won’t give you one for movie posters, music artwork, and things like that... And the point is that a random name just adds noise.

And another nuance. VoiceOver has a feature called [Image Explorer](https://iosdev.space/@dadederk/109587356581980365). VoiceOver can recognise text, people and objects in images. So if you think that users can get value with this feature, you might want to consider exposing the image then.

Oh! And avoid images of text please!

### Day 6

With regular buttons from UIKit or SwiftUI, you are all set. With complex views, headings, or table/collection view cells that, when selected, bring the user somewhere else in the app or perform an action, you'll have to add the button accessibility trait yourself to convey users that it is an interactive component.

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 6. Missing button accessibility trait. Four examples of not-so-obvious elements that require the button trait to be added by developers. First example, the collection view cells representing shortcuts in the Shortcuts app. Runs the shortcut when selected. Second example, the table view cell with a post in the Mastodon app. It opens the detail view and thread when selected. Third example, the What to Watch header in the Apple TV+ app. It can be selected and it will open the What to Watch screen. Fourth example, a view that is more complex than a regular button like a notification in Notification Centre that opens the notification.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day6.png)

### Day 7

Grouping elements when it makes sense can make a huge impact on easing navigation with some assistive technologies like VoiceOver, Switch Control, or Full Keyboard Access. It also helps on reducing redundancy.

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 7. Grouping elements for easier navigation. There is an example using the Foursquare app. There is a list of restaurants. Each restaurant has a name, type, location, and rate. By default, you'd need four swipes to the right with VoiceOver to go from one restaurant to the next one. That's 32 swipes to go through 8 restaurants. If we group all these, it is just a single swipe to go from one item to the next one, easing navigation a lot. There is another example showing Next Door. The post in the example would require 9 swipes. So you can see how things can quickly get worse for more complex views. In that case, each post has a more options, like, reply, and share buttons that would repeat for every single item causing lots of redundancy.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day7.png)

In **UIKit**, this process consists of three steps:
1. Setting the parent view as an accessible element: https://iosdev.space/@dadederk/109693895401281036
2. Configure relevant accessibility label, value, traits and hints on the parent view: https://iosdev.space/@dadederk/109806337876803727
3. If there are secondary actions within the grouped view, configure custom actions: https://iosdev.space/@dadederk/1097016

In **SwiftUI**, it might be as simple as using the .accessibilityElement(children:) modifier with the .combine accessibility child behaviour: https://iosdev.space/@dadederk/109932750048041110
If that doesn't quite work as expected, try to tweak the internal views. If not, you can fall back to UIKit's three step process.

### Day 8

If a view has isAccessibilityElement to true, assistive tech won't look for any of its subviews. That means that if there are any buttons inside, they won't be accessible. You can add custom actions to be able to 'interact' with them.

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 8. Inaccessible buttons within accessible views. Example of the Mastodon app. If we make the table view cell representing a post an accessible element so it is easier to navigate, the subviews, including the buttons, won't be accessible anymore. So how can a VoiceOver, Keyboard, Voice Control, or Switch Control user interact with them? Custom actions to the rescue. In SwiftUI there is a new modifier, since iOS 16, called accessibilityActions. Before, you had to add the actions one by one. In UIKit, there is an accessibilityCustomActions property, which is an array of UIAccessibilityCustomAction.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day8.png)

### Day 9

 If you have interactions that are hidden or require complex gestures to be performed or that may conflict with VoiceOver, you need to provide alternative ways of executing these actions. Custom actions can help a lot of times, but not always. 

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 9. Hidden actions not being accessible. Find alternative ways of actioning hidden interactions or that require complex gestures or gestures that conflict with VoiceOver's. Two examples. The first one is swiping left in a table view cell to unveil a delete option. That could be fixed by adding delete as a custom action. Second example is a bottom sheet menu with a grid of options. You need to swipe down to dismiss it. You'd probably need to implement the escape gesture for VoiceOver and it would be a good idea to add a close button anyway.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day9.png)

### Day 10

Toggles or UISwitches are often found separated from the label that precedes (and describes) them; with an unclear label; missing a value, trait, or hint; or even not being actionable at all. 

![Calendar of Advent of iOS Accessibility. Day 10. Bad experience with toggles. Very often toggles or UISwitches are not grouped together with the label preceding them or lack of the right values, traits and hints. Three examples. With the first one VoiceOver just says "Shared accomodation" and it is not even actionable. The second one focuses first on the label and then on the switch. VoiceOver says "Event cancellations" and then "Switch button, on, doublet-tap to toggle setting". The third one does a similar thing but treats the switch as a button. VoiceOver says: "Like" and then "Button". All quite confusing. With UIKit you can configure your UISwitch as the accessoryView for a table view cell. With SwiftUI you can use a named Toggle that lets you specify an associated label.](images/posts/2024-12-06-01/Day10.png)

### Day 11

This post is work in progress... One more sleep till the next tip! See you tomorrow!

You can also follow the series in:
* [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/hashtag/?keywords=adventofiosaccessibility)
* [Mastodon](https://iosdev.space/tags/adventOfIOSAccessibility)
* [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/hashtag/adventOfIOSAccessibility)
* [Threads](https://www.threads.net/search?q=365DaysIOSAccessibility&serp_type=tags&tag_id=18487639627032592)

